Open Collective Notes 12-31-2021

All info coming from the docs: https://docs.opencollective.com/help/

Due to initial research, seems that starting it as an "Open Source Project" would be too daunting

Starting as a "Community" might be the better way

Need name (got that) and a clear and concise mission (that will take some work)

Should have an image (we've got that), core contributors (need to work on that) 

Can start submitting expenses before having a fiscal host

We also seem to need to have things budgeted out, but I don't see anything really spelled out in any of the examples of successful collectives I've looked at

Fiscal Host is what handles the back end of the money stuff, here's the list of them: https://opencollective.com/hosts

Here's where I see problems: we're obviously faith-based, and Catholic on top of that. We're trying to do a lot of things, no simple mission. The end goal of the Saint Maker is necessarily nebulous. We don't have a lot of people, and no distinct organization. Technically not a charity, yes, technically about education, and we'll probably have to lean on that, but the scope is so much broader.

Thought: setup just a "scholarship" part of the Saint Maker as the open collective - people and eventually the teaching companies can contribute to fund the student education aspect, while other costs (startup of teaching companies, etc...) is handled more on a case-by-case basis (or even better, the first startup includes raising funds to get the Not For Profit started and a bank account where we can route our own funds and move away from Open Collective

Example of a scholarship open collective: https://opencollective.com/endurance-scholarship#category-ABOUT

Not a ton of guidance on the budgeting part: https://docs.opencollective.com/help/collectives/budget

Potentially interesting option of being an "Independant Collective": https://docs.opencollective.com/help/independent-collectives/about-independent-collectives

Realize I might be overthinking a lot of aspects, was looking through some of the collectives on the site and they are stupid simple, and still have a fiscal host, even found one that only has one core contributor!

Recommendation: build out the Open Collective profile for the Saint Maker, refine exactly what we are aiming for budget-wise, apply to a fiscal host, learn from the experience, and we either win or have to try again, this time with some knowledge of what doesn't work.

One last thought: whatever aspect of Saint Maker funding we end up making this Open Collective correspond to, needs to be something long-standing. We are wanting to get people donating to this that can donate for a long time, towards a consistant goal, with visible results and progress we can report on.
